---
title:  "Route"
header:
  image: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1432847712612-926caafaa802?auto=format&fit=crop&w=1050&q=60&ixid=dW5zcGxhc2guY29tOzs7Ozs%3D
  teaser: http://nolanclark.co/images/teaser.png
tags:
  - mobile-app
  - development
  - project
---

Here's how I took a simple app idea, and brought it to life as one of my most prized projects.

# Development

Near the beginning of September, I decided I was going to endure one of the hardest development tasks I had ever put myself up to. I wanted to create a native, mobile app on my own. I had an amazing app idea, I knew Angular pretty well, and I tasked myself with putting both together into an amazing mobile product. I immediately stumbled across the tools Ionic and Cordova, as well as discovered the concept of a Progressive Web App. This was absolutely perfect for the needs of this project. I looked at giving React Native a chance, although for this project, I thought the Ionic and Angular combination was the better front-end stack. Initially I needed to come up with the general layout of the app, structure my data, and look into what sort of database I was going to implement into the project. After this initial preparation process, I discovered that this was going to be a pretty development massive task, totaling around 30 screens with design and logic for each. Whew! I began by looking into Google Firebase, as I've heard it's amazing for scalable, real-time data. This was a very important step, because without the discovery of Firebase services, I wouldn't have found all my necessary tools for a user system or backend storage. Firebase, what an amazing tool. With Firebase I then created my user authentication system, and began designing and developing screens, focusing on User Experience and making the app as logicially sound as possible. For my app services, I went with using Google Places API, Foursquare API, Mapbox API, and as stated, Firebase services. These have covered and exceeded my expectations for my app, adding even more options into my app design. Currently, I am nearing the final development steps of the app. Almost all the logic is completed, now it's time to focus on the user design and experience as a wrap-up for this project.  

# The Idea

Let me tell you a little bit about my app. My app is called Route as the title suggests. The goal is to have users create a day of events for other users. So let's say you are going to Chicago this weekend on a spontaneous trip. You've been there a few times, and you don't want to do the typical touristy activities. You could hop on Route, and find a day of events structured around you and your favorite activities. When you find the ideal path, you're free to save it for the weekend, and come back when you are ready to start your adventure. Now this isn't just for traveling, I wanted to encompass several activities into the app. Maybe you are headed out for a date tonight, and can't really decide where you want to go. Users have the ability to create pre-planned dates for the users. If you aren't the best at planning, like myself, this is perfect for you. Easy date ideas at the palm of your hands, created by people all around you. 

# The Deploy

My goal is to have the app launched on the Google Play store, as well as the Apple Store, by the first of the year. Stay tuned for more updates, and get ready for Route on January 1st. 

Thanks

Twitter: [@nolanmclark](http://www.twitter.com/nolanmclark)

Instagram: [nolanmclark](http://www.instagram.com/nolanmclark)

LinkedIn: [nolanmclark](http://www.linkedin.com/nolanmclark)


